Here is the detailed content for each step of the DAMA Skills Assessment application process, extracted from the guide:

How to Apply for a DAMA Skills Assessment
This section outlines the steps involved in applying for a DAMA Skills Assessment.

Step 1 – Am I eligible for a DAMA skills assessment?
You are eligible to apply for an ACECQA DAMA skills assessment if your nominated occupation is one of the following (Child Care Worker, Family Day Care Worker, Preschool Aide, Out of School Hours Care Worker) and you intend to migrate to Australia under a specified DAMA program.

Specific DAMA Programs by Occupation:
Child Care Worker:

(East) Kimberley Region in Western Australia

Far North Queensland

Goldfields Western Australia

Great South Coast region of Victoria

Northern Territory

Orana New South Wales

Pilbara Region in Western Australia

South Australia Regional

South West Region of Western Australia

Townsville

Family Day Care Worker:

Goldfields Western Australia

Preschool Aide:

(East) Kimberley Region in Western Australia

Out of School Hours Care Worker:

Far North Queensland

Pilbara Region in Western Australia

Before applying, it is highly recommended that you:
Check if your qualification appears on ACECQA's lists of approved qualifications.

Check if the visa you intend to apply for requires a skills assessment.

Confirm which skilled occupation you require a skills assessment for.

Confirm you have sufficient post-qualification employment experience in the nominated occupation.

Do NOT submit a DAMA skills assessment application if:
❌ You have not completed your qualification

❌ You do not meet the eligibility criteria

❌ You already hold a valid skills assessment

❌ You require a migration skills assessment for the Child Care Centre Manager or Child Care Worker (group leaders only) occupations

❌ You require a provisional skills assessment

❌ You do not have sufficient post-qualification employment experience

❌ You require a skills assessment for an occupation for which ACECQA is not the approved Assessing Authority.

If any of the above apply to you, please call ACECQA (1300 422 327) for clarification.

Step 2 - Read the DAMA Skills Assessment Application Guidelines
ACECQA assesses applications against specific assessment standards for each DAMA program and occupation. It is crucial to read the relevant guidelines for your nominated occupation and region:

Specific DAMA Assessment Standards by Occupation:
Child Care Worker:

East Kimberley Region in Western Australia (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Far North Queensland (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Goldfields Western Australia (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Great South Coast region of Victoria (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Northern Territory (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Orana New South Wales (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Pilbara Region in Western Australia (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

South Australia regional (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

South West Region of Western Australia (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Townsville (Child Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Family Day Care Worker:

Goldfields Western Australia (Family Day Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Preschool Aide:

(East) Kimberley Region in Western Australia (Preschool Aide) DAMA Assessment Standards

Out of School Hours Care Worker:

Far North Queensland (Out of School Hours Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

Pilbara Region in Western Australia (Out of School Hours Care Worker) DAMA Assessment Standards

If you are concerned that you may not satisfy these standards, you can seek general advice about the application process and assessment standards by calling 1300 422 327 or emailing skilledmigration@acecqa.gov.au.

Step 3 - Prepare the required supporting documentation for your application
The supporting evidence required will depend on whether you already hold a suitable qualification or need your qualifications assessed under the NQF as part of your Migration Skills Assessment.

If you hold a suitable qualification, you will need to provide:
Your valid passport (open booklet, displaying identity/biometric pages)

Evidence of change of name (if applicable)

Evidence you hold an ACECQA nationally approved certificate III (or higher level) qualification (if applicable)

Official certificate/parchment for your qualification/s

Official academic transcript for your qualification/s (must include all years of study)

Formal employment contract in the relevant occupation

Formal position description in the relevant occupation

Evidence of service registration/regulation for each period of relevant employment

Employer Reference Template (completed by your employer) for all employment experience claimed

Employment Experience Template (completed by you) for all employment experience claimed

A complete DAMA Skills Assessment Applicant Declaration and Consent Form

An Authorised Representative Declaration and Consent Form (if nominating a representative)

A Migration Agent Declaration and Consent Form (if nominating a migration agent)

If you need your qualifications assessed under the NQF as part of your DAMA skills assessment, you will also need to provide:
Certified colour copies of your passport, change of name evidence, parchment and academic transcripts

Evidence of English language proficiency

A complete NQF Applicant Declaration and Consent Form (choose based on occupation):

NQF Applicant Declaration and Consent Form (for Child Care Worker/Family Day Care Worker)

NQF Applicant Declaration and Consent Form (for Outside School Hours Care Worker)

Any documents in a language other than English must be formally translated. Both original language and English translations (certified colour copies) must be submitted.

For more information, refer to the DAMA Skills Assessment Application Guidelines.

Step 4 – Take your documents to have them legally certified
Only for applicants who do not currently hold an NQF approved qualification.

ACECQA requires certain documents to be provided as certified colour copies of your originals (see Step 3 above). You will need to take both your original document and a colour copy of that document to a legally authorised person. Certifications must be in English, and applicants must not certify their own documents.

To provide correctly certified colour copies of your documents for this application, please refer to the certifying documents information sheet.

Step 5 – Prepare your employment evidence
ACECQA requires evidence of how you demonstrated your skills while employed in the nominated occupation. To support this assessment, you must provide two employment templates, one completed by you, and one completed by your employer:

Have your employers/referees complete the Employer Reference Template.

Complete your Employment Experience Template.

These templates must be completed by you and your direct supervisor only and should address the assessment standards relevant to your nominated occupation. If it appears your templates have been prepared by someone else, they will not be accepted.

Step 6 – Scan your documents for uploading to your application
To provide an ‘Assessment Ready’ application, your documents must be:

A colour copy in high resolution (photographs preferred)

Clearly visible – blurry or illegible documents will not be accepted

In colour and correctly certified (see Step 4 above - only for applicants who do not currently hold an NQF approved qualification)

Centred on the page – documents missing edges or not aligned will not be accepted

Showing the whole document being submitted – must display all edges

In an acceptable file format (e.g.: .PDF, .JPEG, .PNG) – other formats may not be accepted

Titled appropriately – multiple unnamed documents may not be accepted

Collated in correct page order – if your document has multiple pages, this should be scanned in one file, in correct page order.

Do not provide documents via GoogleDrive or other unsecured cloud-based links.

Step 7 – Begin online application and make payment
This application will take about 40 minutes to complete. During the application, you will be asked to provide supporting documents. All files submitted of scanned documents must be at a high resolution and appropriately titled. Please upload your documents using links provided in the online application.

ACECQA is unable to assess your application until all the required information and documentation have been provided. This means the 60-day assessment period will not begin until an ‘Assessment Ready’ application has been provided.

It is your (and any nominated migration agent’s) responsibility to provide an ‘Assessment Ready’ application.

Are you submitting an application on behalf of someone else?

Our online application portal requires applicants to register before submitting their application. Registration allows both applicants and migration agents access to ACECQA’s application portal where they can prepare, submit or track the progress of their application. Please make sure you provide a genuine personal email address to receive your portal access information. Generic email addresses (e.g. info@email.com) will not be accepted for portal access.

At the end of the application, you will be asked to pay the application fee.

For frequently asked questions about DAMA skills assessments, click here.

Your application will not be submitted until you have processed payment. There is no refund if your application is unsuccessful or if you choose to withdraw the application after it has been submitted.

Step 8 – What happens to my application?
ACECQA will email you within 10 working days once your application has been received.

ACECQA is committed to completing your assessment within 60 days from receiving all the information they require. If your application is missing information or documents, then the application process will be delayed.

Giving false or misleading information is a serious offence. ACECQA undertakes routine checks to verify the information provided in your application and conducts thorough checking of submitted documents. They will notify the relevant Australian Government Department and law enforcement agency where they have reason to believe that false or misleading information is provided.

Your personal information will be used and stored in accordance with the Australian Privacy Principles which are set out in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and their privacy policy.

Step 9/10 - How do I receive my outcome?
Once your application has been assessed, ACECQA will notify you of the outcome by email.

If your application is successful, you will be able to submit your DAMA skills assessment as part of a visa application. Note: a successful DAMA skills assessment does not guarantee your visa will be granted.

If your application is unsuccessful, you will receive reasons for the decision. If you have additional evidence or believe that evidence provided with your application has not adequately been considered, you can request a review of your skills assessment:

For Child Care Worker: Request a review of your skills assessment

For Family Day Care Worker and Outside School Hours Care Worker: Request a review of your skills assessment